{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset238 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang1050 CLARC 2025: Bridging Minds\par
CLARC 2025\par
Home\par
Schedule\par
Speakers\par
A(i)ssistant\par
CFP\par
Sponsors\par
Venue\par
Accommodations\par
Opatija\par
\par
\par
BP\par
Futuristic abstract network connections representing Opatija's blend of history and technology\par
CLARC 2025: Bridging Minds\par
Join leading researchers, innovators, and thinkers to explore the future of Artificial Intelligence and collaborative discovery.\par
\par
Register NowView Schedule\par
About CLARC 2025\par
The Center for Language Research at the University of Rijeka proudly presents CLARC2025, where language\f1\emdash the foundation of human communication, culture, and identity\emdash is explored at the intersection with artificial intelligence. In this era of technological transformation, language research has evolved into a field of intensive collaboration with information technologies. Artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data analysis, and natural language processing (NLP) have become essential tools in language study, offering new possibilities for analyzing, processing, and preserving linguistic data. From speech recognition and machine translation to social media analysis and digital language preservation\emdash linguistic and information sciences are becoming allies in creating smarter, more accessible technologies. Join us in creating the future of digital linguistics!\par
\par
Conference Schedule\par
Explore our diverse range of talks, workshops, and networking opportunities.\par
\par
Pre-Conference\par
Day 1\par
Day 2\par
CLASSLA-express Workshop\par
10:00 - 12:30\par
|\par
Workshop\par
Faculty of Philosophy, University of Rijeka\par
A practical workshop on language processing tools for South Slavic languages, led by Ivana Filipovi\f2\'e6 Petrovi\'e6 and Nikola Ljube\'9ai\'e6.\par
\par
Ivana Filipovi\'e6 Petrovi\'e6, Nikola Ljube\'9ai\'e6\par
Add to Calendar\par
Lunch Break\par
12:30 - 14:00\par
|\par
Break\par
University Cafeteria\par
Network with fellow attendees and workshop participants.\par
\par
Additional Workshop (TBD)\par
14:00 - 16:30\par
|\par
Workshop\par
Faculty of Philosophy, University of Rijeka\par
More information about this workshop will be announced soon.\par
\par
Integrated Study Presentation: FER and FFZG\par
17:00 - 18:00\par
|\par
Talk\par
Faculty of Philosophy, Main Lecture Hall\par
Presentation of the integrated study program between Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing (FER) and Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (FFZG) focusing on Applied Cognitive Science.\par
\par
Abstract network or futuristic background for speakers section\par
Meet Our Speakers\par
Learn from industry leaders and academic pioneers at the forefront of AI.\par
\par
Benedikt Perak\par
Benedikt Perak\par
Researcher, University of Rijeka\par
Expert in cognitive linguistics, digital humanities, and AI applications in language research.\par
\par
Renata Geld\par
Renata Geld\par
Professor, University of Zagreb\par
Specializing in cognitive linguistics, language acquisition, and educational technology applications.\par
\par
Tony Veale\par
Tony Veale(TBC)\par
Professor of Computer Science, University College Dublin\par
Leading researcher in computational creativity, figurative language processing, and AI-generated humor.\par
\par
Speaker To Be Announced\par
Coming Soon\par
We are in the process of confirming more expert speakers. Check back soon for updates!\par
\par
Speaker To Be Announced\par
Coming Soon\par
We are in the process of confirming more expert speakers. Check back soon for updates!\par
\par
Speaker To Be Announced\par
Coming Soon\par
We are in the process of confirming more expert speakers. Check back soon for updates!\par
\par
CLARC AI Assistant\par
Ask me anything about CLARC 2025!\par
pozdrav\par
\par
Pozdrav! Kako vam mogu pomo\'e6i? Ako imate pitanja o konferenciji CLARC 2025, jezi\'e8nim tehnologijama, umjetnoj inteligenciji ili nekoj drugoj temi iz podru\'e8ja jezika i tehnologije, slobodno pitajte.\par
\par
References:\par
\par
[KG] CLARC 2025 - nacrt poziva.docx\par
gdje se odr\'9eava konferencija?\par
\par
Mjesto odr\'9eavanja konferencije\par
Konferencija "Perspektive jezi\'e8nih istra\'9eivanja u doba umjetne inteligencije" odr\'9eava se na Filozofskom fakultetu Sveu\'e8ili\'9ata u Rijeci. Filozofski fakultet je sastavni dio Sveu\'e8ili\'9ata u Rijeci, a sam grad Rijeka je doma\'e6in ove me\'f0unarodne znanstvene konferencije.\par
\par
Tako\'f0er, radionica CLASSLA-express, koja je pretkonferencijski doga\'f0aj, odr\'9eat \'e6e se tako\'f0er na Filozofskom fakultetu Sveu\'e8ili\'9ata u Rijeci.\par
\par
Sa\'9eetak\par
Lokacija: Filozofski fakultet, Sveu\'e8ili\'9ate u Rijeci\par
Grad: Rijeka, Hrvatska\par
Doga\'f0aji: Konferencija i radionica CLASSLA-express\par
Reference\par
[KG] CLARC 2025 - nacrt poziva.docx (Entiteti i odnosi: Filozofski fakultet, Sveu\'e8ili\'9ate u Rijeci, Rijeka, CLARC 2025)\par
[DC] CLARC 2025 - nacrt poziva.docx (Dokumentni isje\'e8ak 2)\par
da ali pi\'9ae u opatiji\par
\par
Prema dostupnim informacijama iz baze znanja, me\'f0unarodni znanstveni skup \f1\'84Perspektive jezi\f2\'e8nih istra\'9eivanja u doba umjetne inteligencije\ldblquote  te konferencija CLARC 2025 odr\'9eavaju se na Filozofskom fakultetu Sveu\'e8ili\'9ata u Rijeci, koji se nalazi u gradu Rijeci. Nema podataka koji bi ukazivali da se doga\'f0aji odr\'9eavaju u Opatiji.\par
\par
Filozofski fakultet Sveu\'e8ili\'9ata u Rijeci je navedena lokacija za radionicu CLASSLA-express (5. studenoga 2025.) kao i za same konferencijske dane (6. i 7. studenoga 2025.). Tako\'f0er, uplata kotizacije je usmjerena na Filozofski fakultet u Rijeci, \'9ato dodatno potvr\'f0uje da je Rijeka mjesto odr\'9eavanja.\par
\par
Ako imate dodatna pitanja ili trebate potvrdu o drugim lokacijama, slobodno pitajte.\par
\par
Sa\'9eetak:\par
Doga\'f0aji se odr\'9eavaju u Rijeci, na Filozofskom fakultetu Sveu\'e8ili\'9ata u Rijeci.\par
Nema podataka o odr\'9eavanju u Opatiji.\par
Radionice, konferencija i uplata vezani su uz Filozofski fakultet u Rijeci.\par
References\par
[KG] CLARC 2025 - nacrt poziva.docx\par
[DC] CLARC 2025 - nacrt poziva.docx\par
Type your question here...\par
Ask\par
AI responses are generated and may occasionally be inaccurate.\par
\par
Call for Papers\par
Perspectives of Language Research in the Age of Artificial Intelligence\par
In an era where technological achievements are reshaping reality, language\f1\emdash the foundation of human communication, culture, and identity\emdash is no longer solely the domain of philological research. This conference aims to bring together academia and industry in the field of language technologies. We invite submissions addressing empirical, theoretical, and methodological questions related to the themes below.\par
\par
Key Themes\par
NLP and Artificial Intelligence\par
Novel models for language understanding, including large language models\par
Semantic analysis, entity recognition, and text categorization\par
Adaptation of NLP models for less-represented languages\par
Automated language processing systems for sentiment and dialogue\par
Real-world NLP applications in chatbots and translations\par
Digital Language Reality and Data in Global Society\par
Digital literacy and impact of new media on language structures\par
Collection of language data in digital environments\par
Differences between digital and traditional spoken language\par
Language rights and policy in digitalization context\par
AI's influence on language communities and preservation\par
Machine Translation and Language Analysis Algorithms\par
New approaches to machine translation (neural networks, transformers)\par
Algorithm adaptation for specific language pairs\par
Techniques for improving accuracy of machine translation\par
Integration of machine translation with NLP methods\par
Automation of proofreading processes\par
Ethics and Social Impact of Language Technologies\par
Privacy and data protection in NLP and language processing\par
Biases in language models and algorithms\par
Impact on employment, especially in translation and journalism\par
Ethical approaches for developing models for smaller languages\par
Application in social contexts and implications for inclusion\par
Important Dates\par
Extended Abstract Submission Deadline: June 15, 2025\par
Notification of Acceptance: To be determined\par
First Call: July 15, 2025\par
Second Call: September 15, 2025\par
Program Announcement: October 1, 2025\par
Conference Dates: November 6-7, 2025\par
Submission Guidelines\par
To participate, please submit an extended abstract in Croatian or English. Your abstract should be 1-3 pages formatted according to the template that will be available soon.\par
\par
All submissions undergo double-blind review by two reviewers, evaluating topic relevance, scientific contribution, and research methodology. All accepted abstracts will be published in the Book of Abstracts.\par
\par
Working languages: Croatian and English\par
\par
Join us at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Rijeka on November 6-7, 2025!\par
\par
Submit Abstract\par
Register for CLARC 2025\par
Secure your spot at the premier AI conference of the year.\par
Full Name\par
e.g., Ada Lovelace\par
Email Address\par
e.g., ada@example.com\par
Organization (Optional)\par
e.g., Babbage Labs\par
Ticket Type\par
Select a ticket type\par
\par
Register & Proceed to Payment\par
Payment Instructions\par
After submitting your registration, you will be redirected to our secure payment portal. We accept all major credit cards and PayPal. Early bird discount ends soon!\par
\par
Our Valued Sponsors\par
We are grateful for the support of these organizations that make CLARC 2025 possible.\par
\par
Gold Sponsors\par
InfoBip logo\par
InfoBip\par
Global cloud communications platform that enables businesses to build connected experiences.\par
Ericsson Nikola Tesla logo\par
Ericsson Nikola Tesla\par
Leading provider of information and communication technology solutions.\par
Google logo\par
Google\par
Technology company specializing in internet-related services and AI innovation.\par
Silver Sponsors\par
Klett-Profil logo\par
Klett-Profil\par
Educational publisher providing innovative learning materials and solutions.\par
Institute for Croatian Language logo\par
Institute for Croatian Language\par
Research institute dedicated to the study and preservation of Croatian language.\par
BRAIN CARNET logo\par
BRAIN CARNET\par
Croatian Academic and Research Network promoting digital transformation in education.\par
CroAI logo\par
CroAI\par
Croatian AI Association promoting the development of artificial intelligence in Croatia.\par
Rije\f2\'e8ka razvojna agencija Porin logo\par
Rije\'e8ka razvojna agencija Porin\par
Rijeka Development Agency supporting innovation and entrepreneurship.\par
Syntagent logo\par
Syntagent\par
AI-powered language technology company specializing in natural language processing solutions.\par
Conference Venue\par
The conference will be held at the prestigious Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta.\par
\par
Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta - Exterior\par
Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta - Lobby\par
Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta - Conference Room\par
Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta - Room\par
Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta - Restaurant\par
Previous slideNext slide\par
Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta\par
Viktora Cara Emina 6, 51410 Opatija, Croatia\par
Located in the heart of Opatija, Grand Hotel 4 Opatijska Cvijeta offers elegant accommodation with stunning views of the Adriatic Sea. The hotel features spacious conference facilities, luxurious rooms, and excellent dining options, making it the perfect venue for CLARC2025.\par
\par
Visit Hotel Website\par
Accommodation Options\par
Comfortable stays conveniently located near the conference venue.\par
\par
Hotel Royal\par
Hotel Royal\par
Luxurious accommodation with stunning sea views, offering a premium experience in Opatija.\par
\par
View Hotel & Book\par
Hotel Continental\par
Hotel Continental\par
A charming hotel known for its historic architecture and central location, perfect for exploring Opatija.\par
\par
View Hotel & Book\par
Scenic view of Opatija, Croatia with its coastline and historic buildings\par
Discover Opatija, Croatia\par
The Pearl of the Adriatic, a historic seaside resort renowned for its stunning Austro-Hungarian architecture, lush parks, and beautiful coastal promenades.\par
\par
How to Arrive\par
By Air: The nearest international airport is Rijeka Airport (RJK) on the island of Krk, approximately 40 km (25 miles) away. Other options include Pula Airport (PUY) at 100 km (62 miles) and Zagreb Airport (ZAG) at 180 km (112 miles), offering more international connections.\par
\par
By Train: Opatija-Matulji train station (5 km from center) is the main rail hub. From there, taxis or local buses provide easy access to Opatija. Rijeka's larger train station (15 km away) offers more connections.\par
\par
By Car: Opatija is well-connected by Croatia's modern highway network. Follow signs for Rijeka, then Opatija. Main routes include the A7 (Rupa-Rijeka) and A6/A1 from Zagreb or Split.\par
\par
Things to Experience\par
Stroll along the Lungomare, a picturesque 12km coastal promenade connecting Opatija with nearby towns.\par
Visit Villa Angiolina, home to the Croatian Museum of Tourism, set within a beautiful park.\par
Relax in Park Sv. Jakova (St. James's Park) or Margarita Park, admiring exotic plants.\par
Admire the iconic "Maiden with the Seagull" statue, a symbol of Opatija.\par
Explore the charming streets, historic villas, and enjoy the local Mediterranean cuisine and vibrant caf\f0\lang1033\'e9 culture.\par
Discover nearby U\f2\'e8ka Nature Park for hiking and panoramic views.\par
CLARC 2025: Bridging Minds\par
\par
In collaboration with\par
CJI Logo\par
Join us for an immersive experience into the future of AI and collaborative research.\par
\par
\f0\'a9 2025 CLARC Conference. All rights reserved.\par
Opening Keynote: The Future of Language Research in the Age of AI\par
09:00 - 10:00\par
|\par
Keynote\par
Main Hall\par
An inspiring talk exploring the evolving landscape of language research and how artificial intelligence is transforming linguistic studies.\par
\par
Benedikt Perak\par
Add to Calendar\par
Coffee Break\par
10:00 - 10:15\par
|\par
Break\par
Foyer\par
Short break before the parallel sessions.\par
\par
Parallel Session 1A: NLP Applications in Croatian\par
10:15 - 10:40\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
Research presentation on natural language processing applications specifically designed for Croatian language (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 1B: Digital Language Archives\par
10:15 - 10:40\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
Exploring how AI helps in creating and maintaining digital language archives for preservation (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 2A: Language Model Biases\par
10:45 - 11:10\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
Examination of inherent biases in language models and strategies for mitigation (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 2B: Sentiment Analysis Tools\par
10:45 - 11:10\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
Presentation of advanced sentiment analysis tools for South Slavic languages (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 3A: Machine Translation Challenges\par
11:15 - 11:40\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
Discussion of specific challenges in machine translation for morphologically rich languages (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 3B: AI in Educational Linguistics\par
11:15 - 11:40\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
Applications of AI in language education and learning research (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 4A: Corpus Linguistics and AI\par
11:45 - 12:10\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
How AI is transforming corpus linguistics methodologies and analysis (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 4B: Ethical Dimensions of Language AI\par
11:45 - 12:10\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
Exploring ethical considerations in developing and deploying language AI systems (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Lunch Break\par
12:15 - 14:00\par
|\par
Break\par
Conference Restaurant\par
Extended networking lunch with exhibition of sponsor booths.\par
\par
Afternoon Keynote: Cognitive Aspects of AI Language Processing\par
14:00 - 15:00\par
|\par
Keynote\par
Main Hall\par
Examining how AI language processing models relate to human cognitive processes.\par
\par
Renata Geld\par
Add to Calendar\par
Coffee Break\par
15:00 - 15:30\par
|\par
Break\par
Foyer\par
Afternoon refreshments and networking.\par
\par
Parallel Session 5A: Computational Linguistics Methods\par
15:30 - 15:55\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
Advanced computational methods for linguistic analysis (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 5B: Social Media Language Analysis\par
15:30 - 15:55\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
AI techniques for analyzing language patterns on social media platforms (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 6A: Language Model Fine-tuning\par
16:00 - 16:25\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
Strategies for fine-tuning large language models for specific linguistic tasks (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 6B: Multimodal Language Processing\par
16:00 - 16:25\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
Integrating text, speech, and visual data in language processing systems (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Round Table: The Future of Language in the Age of AI\par
17:00 - 18:30\par
|\par
Panel\par
Main Hall\par
Expert discussion on how AI will transform language research, usage, and preservation in the coming decades, featuring leading academics and industry representatives.\par
\par
Tadi\f2\'e6, Krek, Ranka Stankovic, CARNET Representative, BRAIN CARNET Representative, Algebra Representative\par
Add to Calendar\par
Conference Dinner\par
19:30 - 22:00\par
|\par
Social Event\par
Hotel Restaurant (Details to be announced)\par
Formal dinner and networking event for all conference participants with Croatian cuisine and cultural program.\par
\par
Day 2 Keynote: Computational Creativity in Language\par
09:00 - 10:00\par
|\par
Keynote\par
Main Hall\par
Exploring how AI systems exhibit creative behaviors in language generation and processing.\par
\par
Tony Veale\par
Add to Calendar\par
Coffee Break\par
10:00 - 10:15\par
|\par
Break\par
Foyer\par
Morning refreshments.\par
\par
Sponsor Showcase: Microsoft Language AI Solutions\par
10:15 - 10:45\par
|\par
Talk\par
Main Hall\par
Presentation of Microsoft's latest advancements in language AI technologies and research tools.\par
\par
Microsoft Representative\par
Add to Calendar\par
Sponsor Showcase: OpenAI Applications in Linguistics\par
10:50 - 11:20\par
|\par
Talk\par
Main Hall\par
Demonstration of OpenAI's tools and APIs for linguistic research and education.\par
\par
OpenAI Representative\par
Add to Calendar\par
Interactive Workshop: Hands-on with Language Models\par
11:30 - 12:30\par
|\par
Workshop\par
Computer Lab\par
Participatory session where attendees can experiment with language models for research purposes.\par
\par
Workshop Facilitator\par
Add to Calendar\par
Lunch Break\par
12:30 - 14:00\par
|\par
Break\par
Conference Restaurant\par
Continued networking with sponsor exhibition.\par
\par
Parallel Session 7A: Dialectal Language Processing\par
14:00 - 14:25\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room A\par
Challenges and solutions in processing dialectal variations with AI (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Parallel Session 7B: Language Preservation Technologies\par
14:00 - 14:25\par
|\par
Talk\par
Room B\par
How AI can assist in preserving endangered languages and dialects (20 min + 5 min Q&A).\par
\par
Speaker TBD\par
Add to Calendar\par
Sponsor Showcase: InfoBip Communication AI\par
14:30 - 15:00\par
|\par
Talk\par
Main Hall\par
Presentation of InfoBip's AI-powered communication platforms and language processing capabilities.\par
\par
InfoBip Representative\par
Add to Calendar\par
Panel: Industry-Academic Collaboration in Language AI\par
15:15 - 16:15\par
|\par
Panel\par
Main Hall\par
Discussion on fostering meaningful partnerships between academic linguists and industry AI developers.\par
\par
Academic Representative, Industry Representative, Government Representative\par
Add to Calendar\par
Awards Ceremony and Closing Remarks\par
16:30 - 17:30\par
|\par
Social Event\par
Main Hall\par
Presentation of awards for outstanding papers and research, followed by closing statements and future conference announcements.\par
\par
Conference Chair\par
Add to Calendar\par
Closing Networking Reception\par
17:30 - 19:00\par
|\par
Social Event\par
Foyer\par
Final opportunity to connect with colleagues and discuss potential collaborations.\f0\lang1050\par
}
 